Content/IterativeProjectApproval.md, before:

## Reinventing Treasury Board Submissions

## Table of Contents
- Need for reinventing Treasury Board Submissions process
- Summary of the new proposed TBS iterative process
- Overview of the Treasury Board Submissions iterative process
- Details of TBS iterative process
- References

## Need for reinventing Treasury Board Submissions process

Rightly so, the initiatives are designed to align well with Government of Canada priorities. Further, these initiatives are designed in a manner to meet the intended results while optimizing the use of resources. 

However, with the foreseeable exponential growth in the advance technology in the coming years and decades, the initiatives need to flexible in design to adapt to the changing environment and respond to it. Using the experience of previous government digital projects, along with extracting lessons learned in resource management strategies from the industry, the implementation processes could be reinvented to simplify the TBS process and promote quicker execution/implementation all while managing the risks and security concerns entailing these projects.

## Summary of the new proposed TBS iterative process

High-stake projects/initiatives need exhausting due diligence to foresee the impacts and outcomes of the projects. Where this may have worked in the past, the fast-evolving technological space need a more responsive project plan to accommodate the nature of changes. Therefore, we propose to introduce a sequential submission request for approvals as opposed to a single (existing) submission for the project. Sequential submissions are a good way to analyze the alignment of organizations activities with Government of Canada’s priorities.

These sequential submission requests may be similar in nature how a digital startup finances throughout its product lifecycle. 

A digital project lifecycle may include the following stages --- Incubation > Sandboxing > Scale-up

Sandboxing is not just validation of the conceptual idea to solve the problem, it also offers a check-point for whether the problem picked up in the first place is the right one. Sandbox projects allow to collect real data and evaluate the results of the core functionality of the product. 
This enables the team 
- To better understand the core problem to be solved 
- Provides customer validation
- Identify any gaps or challenges for large scale implementation 
- Improves early integration of security features
- Presents a chance to learn and pivot (for example, job listing may not be the core problem anymore as several alternatives are present. The problem may lie in finding a better match based on competencies, ways to be more inclusive in hiring or support to people to better apply to these jobs etc.)

## Overview of the Treasury Board Submissions iterative process



## References

Commit message:

Revised version for sequential proposal approach

Content/IterativeProjectApproval.md, after:

﻿## Sequential Proposal Approach

## Table of Contents
- Executive summary of the iterative proposal approach 
- Details of IT Project phases
- Details of sequential proposal approach 
- References

## Executive summary of the iterative proposal approach

Prior experience teaches that IT projects are better delivered when implemented in a phased manner. Each sequential phase delivering the next product version, implementing improved functionality and upgrades.

This proposal is to suggest to adopt a sequential approach for IT projects approval reflecting the different phases of the projects.  

For example, a project may make sequential Treasury Board Submissions reflecting different implementation phases.

## Details of IT Project phases

**Prototyping > Scale-up > Ongoing Maintenance & Upgrades**

**_Prototyping_**

Prototyping represents the phase where the product`s core functionality is build. The outcomes of this phase may include an operational prototype ready-to-be implemented. The learnings of this project will help respond to the actual needs of the changing environment and plan for the next phases.

The costs of this phase may be marginal as compared to total cost of the project/initiative.

**_Scale-up_** 

Scale-up represents the phase where the product is developed as a complete package of functionalities and supported infrastructure is introduced to manage the clientele. 

**_Ongoing Maintenance & Upgrades_** 

Every software product needs continuous maintenance and upgrades to meet new safety and quality standards.

## Details of sequential proposal approach

The sequential proposal approach (such as creating sequential TB Submissions for an initiative) will enable in creating a more responsive project plan to accommodate the changes based on the outcomes of each project phase. 

## References
